do with that?
You were going to work for whom doing what?
Well, I knew I was going into the service for one thing, of course, and they know whether that would be a career or not.
But the aspect of counseling and hiring was appealing to me, helping people get promotions, doing positive things.
Little did I realize at the time that that field really involved so much with paperwork and
and you don't have that personal touch like I thought it would, but that was my thoughts.
That's what I was hoping to be able to do.
As you're working your way through academically, did you learn about any gift courses that were just giveaways?
They were always trying to get some extra grade points.
There were always people telling you about courses that were supposed to be a C&J or an easy grade or something of that nature.
that we'd hear about, and most of us would try them, and we wouldn't necessarily always make an A, you know, but there was always rumors of that.
As far as you and your buddies knew, were there any giveaway courses for athletes or for rich boys?
We weren't aware of it.
I'll tell you now, we were close.
Well, I wouldn't say that my freshman year we weren't close to athletes, but later on we had a lot of classes with them, and I never knew of that, never even thought about that at that time again.
It was just because of my immaturity.
I don't think they existed then.
I don't think so.
I really don't.
Were there any... The athletes were more like real students than possibly today, I would say that.
A lot of them went through the Corps also, not to the degree that the regular Corps, but they wore uniforms at times.
So as that freshman year is working out, you're beginning to feel good about it and everything.
Yes, sir.
As you get ready to end that freshman year, how did you feel when you went through final review as a fish?
Well, of course, a great feeling of accomplishment.
And just, again, myself just being, I guess you would say, a sensitive person, it was a sad time for me to see those seniors.
They had played such a great part of my life and my maturing as a person and a cadet and thinking that I would never see them again.
And like most freshmen, the seniors, they're really the stuff.
And there'll never be another class like that.
And certainly not the sophomores when they become seniors.
They'll never be that good.
So it was a double-edged sword for me.
It was a time of rejoicing for my classmates and I to have accomplished what we did and to get through the hard times.
I mean, they were hard.
But at the same time, to think that we'd never see some of these people again that had spent a lot of time with us and coaching us to become men.
Now you go back to the dorm and change your outfit
Yes, change your uniform to the upcoming year and then go right back, right back.
It wasn't much delay like there is now between the first pass and the last pass.
It was like we can, we always had the drills out on Simpson drill field.
And it was covered just about.
It was just about full of cadets, one end or the other.
And a great time to see all those seniors lined up.
stretch one end to the other, and many of them with tears in their eyes, and coming out to salute you and their way of congratulating you for making it and carrying on.
It was a tough time.
Do you remember going to commencement, that freshman year?
I do not.
I sure don't.
All right, you go home.
What did you do that summer?
The first summer I went home, I worked at Lone Star Army Ammunition Plant.
I taught swimming.
most of my high school years, but that summer, I worked at Lone Star Army Ammunition Plant, roofing buildings, putting tar, taking off roofs, little flat buildings, and they were the size of an acre, at least, in size of an army installation, and re-roofing it with hot tar.
It was already 100 degrees, and that hot tar, it was probably 150, so I know I wanted some cowboy boots real bad,
But every time I'd go to the store and price them, I would say, now, is that worth two weeks of work up on that hot roof, you know?
Made you appreciate money a little bit more than possibly before.
Your first year or two down here, about how much money did you have as spending?
Oh, I don't remember.
I mean, I don't remember having any.
I didn't work.
Nobody in the court really worked.
Something, I would say, that I knew of.
I mean, it seemed like they were always there.
But some of the guys maybe worked in Duncan and did that type of work.
So as far as money, there wasn't anything to do for one thing.
There wasn't but one or two eating establishments in the whole area that we were aware of.
So mom and dad paid your way.
They did now.
Like I say, I worked.
But for the most part, they did.
All right, did you then that, after that fish year, did you save some of that summer money and spending money?
Oh, yes, sir.
Yes, sir, we did.
And help, you know, put it on the schooling too.
But I'm going to have to say that my parents were, they really sacrificed in order to enable me to have the experience of college.
What was different about being a sophomore at A&M?
Describe all of a sudden, you know, you're one in authority and you're kind of the instructor and swapping places.
I wasn't one of the few.
I'm not saying right or wrong.
I'm just saying that, again, because of my Christian background, I didn't cuss.
And so I was able to coach and teach in a way that was different.
In fact, I've had some of my underclassmen tell me that the one thing they remember that I was tough and made them a man.
but they never heard me cuss.
Did you use a paddle ever in a clothes hanger?
I never used a clothes hanger.
I never had a paddle of my own that I used in
I probably, the broom was about the only thing that I ever used on a few and never probably hit as hard as I was hit.
But there were a few and it was mostly and never in a situation where they weren't expecting it or kind of.
What about, were there, do you remember any pranks played on you as a sophomore?
Yes, not as many as what I pulled when I was a fish.
Babo bombing.
I never did babo bombing, but a lot of cadets did.
Drowned outs.
We would, when an upperclassman had given us a hard time, some sophomore coming in from class, this is back to the fish year, we would fill up big trash cans full of water and when they would come in at the end, we would dump it on them and as they were coming in at the end of the dorm and run off, of course.
if you want me to tell you another story as a fish maybe, and it's in here if you need to, in my book, but one of the things was when, you had to have every button on your uniform, you couldn't have cables on, everything had to be just perfect, lined up exactly right, the brass had to be in a certain spot, and they'd inspect you every formation, and one formation,
one of the sophomores was inspecting me, and lo and behold, I had one of my buttons that was unbuttoned, and so he told me to come by his hole, which is his room, after chow, and went by his room, and he gave me this real long lecture about what a sloppy cadet I was, and he said, make you remember this, I'm gonna cut your button off, so you'll have to sew it back on, and you'll remember next time not to leave your button unbuttoned, so he got to looking around for a knife, and he didn't have one,
So he asked me, and I was just standing up against the wall at the detention, and he was shooting me up one side and down the other, and he asked me if I had a knife, and I said, no, sir.
I wasn't about to give him my own knife to cut off my own button, you know.
So he said, you wait right here, and I'm gonna go next door and get a knife, and I'll be right back.
So while he was gone, I took my knife out, went in his closet, cut off five buttons off his shirt, stuffed them in my pocket, went back over and stood his attention, and he comes back in with his knife and cuts it off,
hands it to me and said, well, that's just the way it goes, fish cocks.
And I said, yes, sir, that's the way it goes, sir.
And left, and of course, he didn't try that shirt off for a few days, so I don't guess he ever knew who it was that cut those buttons off, but that's one of the pranks that most people seem to appreciate the most.
And as a sophomore, your guidelines, let's see, you say you didn't cuss them.
What about, what were your, what bugged you most?
What bothered you most that you were trying to?
I think just anybody that had a sold attitude or more so than their uniform or their room appearance, which was, I still checked on that and didn't like that either, but
But if anybody had some kind of attitude or didn't really love the traditions or fussed about anything, you know, had any kind of reaction like that, that was kind of my pet peeve.
All right.
Now, by that second year, are you attending church locally?
I would say no.
No, I wasn't very good.
What did you and your buddies do on Sunday morning?
Well, like I said, when I go, my sophomore year, we're talking about most of my sophomore year, and I was signing in every hour on the hour because of the previous year.
But I sleep in a lot, go to there, visit each other's homes.
By our sophomore year, we were starting to visit each other more and go home with people that were a lot closer than I was.
A few times they got to go home with me, but it's a pretty long trip
make on a weekend up to northeast Texas.
So the people from around Gonzales and Van Vlick and Houston and that area is mostly where we would go just to get away or stay here.
And of course if there was a ball game or something like that.
Had you discovered the MSC by then?
Yes.
But it was almost a chore to go to because you had to wear a uniform and you couldn't go in without it.
You couldn't even go get your mail without having a uniform on.
So as far as going to the MSC and being a relaxing place, for me in particular, probably not so much.
I wish that it had been.
It was just my fear of the upperclassmen or whatever.
If you needed to just relax during the day to get away
Where could you go and kind of... There weren't a lot of places that I was aware of, so there wasn't a lot of relaxing on me.
It seemed like we were doing something all the time, getting ready for intramurals, if not the core stuff.
But a few times, very few times, maybe not more than two or three for me, Dick Hickerson, who was from Bryan College Station, played baseball for the Aggies, older than me,
who was a roommate of Randy Wortham that I mentioned earlier, lived right off campus, and a couple times we'd go over to Miss Hickerson's house and just hang out over there for, but I would say that didn't happen more than a couple of times.
And Randy Wortham was here for his master's, and he and his wife had a place off campus,
And sometimes I would go over there and just hang out at their place, and they were real nice about that.
Randy and Linda Wortham.
All right.
Let's see, Guyon Hall was still... Oh, yes.
Yeah, in the movies.
What a great fun time.
Describe.
A real tragedy in my eyes, of course.
I'm real big on tradition and not tearing down all the old stuff.
I tell you, and we're bad about that,
in America, and even at Aggieland, we would think that we'd be one of the last ones to tear down old stuff, but Yon Hall was a beautiful structure with the columns, and it's where they would, we'd have a lot of our corps meetings, and they'd have POWs that would come and talk to us, but it was also a place where they showed flicks, movies.
Flicks.
And how did you and other Aggies... Oh my goodness, it was hilarious.
Now I wasn't much,
about making comments and cutting up and coming up with cute sayings with different scenes.
I was more shy and held back.
But I mean, there were some guys that were hilarious and they were much more funny than the movies with the comments they would make it a love scene.
In fact, it was one of my dad's favorite places to go when he came to campus and would visit with us and to go to Guyne.
He thought that was tremendous.
He had never seen anything.
like that and that was one of his great memories and therefore one of mine and it was a tragedy when they tore it down to me.
One of my friends, Mr. Hoffman, who was class of 1939, was a POW and Japanese prisoner of war camp for three and a half years.
His son was here when they tore it down and he was able to get one of the chandeliers
out of Guyne.
And just a few years ago when we got to know them, we came close with them.
He gave it to me to give to the Corps Center, so I took it over and gave it to them.
So that's, it was a great place.
The Guyne family learned of the destruction
by seeing a picture in the Waco paper.
No, no.
Dorsey McCrory, Mr. Rutter's assistant, forgot to call him.
So obviously when they made a major gift about three years later, it didn't go to A&M.
Yes, I imagine.
No, we should have at least saved the facade.
Yes, oh, exactly.
And it would have faced right down Military Walk.
Wouldn't it not have been beautiful?
I agree with you totally, and I don't know why we do that.
Let's see, did you go to the movie much at Northgate?
We did some, yes.
I remember I'd be studying or something, and
And one of my buddies would come in and say, let's go to the flick.
Johnny Beckham would come in and say, let's go to the flick.
Oh, I can't.
I've got to study.
Oh, come on, let's go.
No, I can't.
What's showing?
Raquel Wells.
Well, okay, I guess so.
So we lost many a great point over at the movie theater at Northgate.
Were you involved in anything at the YMCA?
No, sir, not that much now.
Fish came later on, but... What about the quack shack?
Did you have any reason?
Yes, I did.
I had measles.
I had the measles when I was down here as a fish.
Oh, describe that.
Oh, my goodness.
It was terrible, and itching.
They put me in a tub and filled it with ice cubes to stop some of the itching and the spread of it, but that was a horrible time.
How long did... I want to say about
Three days, and that's my memory of the crack shack.
Do you remember any of the doctors by name?
I do not.
I'm sorry that I don't.
One time I was looking through, as a pitcher, I was looking through a microscope in biology, and one of my buddies, or I thought he was, came up behind me and hit me in the back of the head and drove my eye down into the microscope, and so I had to wear a patch around for several days until I got over there.
But I never went to any doctor except the crack shack.
I didn't know any here in town.
And let's see, and you said that you did not participate much then in religious activities.
We were talking about athletics a while ago.
I would say formalized religious activities as far as church.
There was a Navigators program that was real active here, a great Bible study group that I was involved with to some degree.
Where did it meet?
Different places.
It was more like a...
small groups and they would help you in memorizing scripture and stuff and i didn't attend that like i should but that was a lot of that was going on campus crusades some of those things it was really different for any of them because in those days in the 60s the rest of the campuses in america were going wild yeah burning the flag and buildings and demonstrating it who were the campus
personalities.
When did you first?
Pinky Downs.
Make believe I didn't know.
Who was Pinky Downs and what did he do?
Well, Pinky was the official greeter.
We considered him the official greeter at Texas A&M.
He was a class of 06, I believe, if I'm not mistaken.
And got to know Pinky more in detail when I was a junior year leader and a Haley leader in senior year because he was always at ball games and he was always giving us ties and stuff like that.
And so...
But even as a freshman and sophomore, you'd always see Pinky around the MSC, always pleasant.
A lot of, you know, it's a shame, but there were some people that would kind of make fun of him.
Pinky was real small and pretty old at that time, kind of feeble, like wore real thick glasses, you know, the Borney Five type in a way.
But I always had a great respect for Pinky because his heart was with the Aggies.
He had a great heart, loved A&M, loved the students, and to me, he was a good age.
What about Earl Rudder?
When did you... Earl Rudder, of course, he was here the entire, he was president of the college the entire time I was here.
Do you remember your first impressions?
Well, just a man, I didn't know a lot about his war history
his decorations and what all he'd accomplished in World War II early on, my first year or two.
I guess we were so wrapped up in the Corps and ourselves and trying to keep out of trouble, we weren't good at learning that about them at that time.
But as far as really getting to know him in a personal way was when I was head jail leader and had several meetings with him one-on-one in his office.
It was always an honor and that's when I started to realize what a great man he was and what a visionary and many of the things you mentioned earlier about the non-compulsory corps and the lying females to come, the name change, all that occurred here in my
tenure here and talked to him about all of that.
It was tough on him.
I don't think we were on tape while ago when we were talking about this.
We'll get to that.
We'll get to that later.
Commandant was whom?
Do you remember?
Davis.
Colonel Davis.
Describe him and personality as far as you recall.
Very military looking and his bearing was very military.
Even back in those days as far as the commandants always and the staff, the bulls we called them,
A lot of them didn't necessarily have a lot of respect for, but some were, you know, very good and helpful and encouraging to us.
And among the other celebrities on campus, Reveille.
Ms.
Reveille, ma'am, of course, and Rudder.
I had a dog that we called Rudder, and we also, during my time, had another dog, Tripod, that had three legs, and we called Tripod.
It was always around campus.
They weren't official mascots, but they were very much a part of the Corps and the legend, and just... And then, as far as individuals,
Corps people or... Any other celebrities, luminaries?
Well, of course, later on, I don't know if you were just talking about my sophomore year or not, but later on Randy Madsen, of course, became world famous when he threw the shot put at 70 feet, the first person in the world to ever do that.
And I was there for that in Kyle Field in March, I believe it was, of 65.
with my buddies, and we saw that event, the Shot Heard Round the World.
And a funny story to go along with that that I'll share with you if you want this.
Just about a week later, that was the Shot Heard Round the World is the way the newspapers described it.
And so everybody across the United States knew Randy Mattson.
And a week later, Johnny Bickham, my buddy from Van Vliet, went home with me and went to church with me that Sunday.
Outside of church, he was introducing himself as Randy Mattson to everyone and shaking hands and autographs and all this and all the little kids were just really eating it up.
We were having a revival and we went down and sat on the very front row because we were late getting in there and they had extra chairs and we were not five feet from the podium there.
We were right in front and after the service was over, the visiting evangelist
came back and sat right in the chair facing us, just five feet away, and so Johnny had to fill out a business card during that time of announcements, and of course he put his real name on it, not knowing that they were gonna call his name out in the service, so here we are, and they called out Johnny Bickham, and here he is on the front row, just, oh, he's squirming bad.
He finally stands up, you know, which now everybody knows he's not Randy Batson,
And he's looking down and the visiting evangelist points at him, kind of points at him like this and says, I like your tie.
Bickham thought he said, zip your fly.
So Bickham's standing up in front of the whole congregation, looking down, fixing his zipper.
And so we'll never forget that.
And the sermon that day, part of it had to do with casting lots for Christ's garments on the cross.
So gambling was in part of the sermon.
And so after it was over, we were talking to the visiting evangelist, and he was saying, oh yeah, I used to be a pastor down in Austin.
He said, but always pull for the Aggies.
And Bickham said, well, old country style, he said, well, I'm glad you pulled for them.
I just hope you didn't bet on them.
And here the Sherman had been on gambling.
When did you get attracted to being a Yale leader?
Not until the end of my sophomore year when it came time to run.
I'd been an athlete in high school and not ever been running anything but cheerleaders, of course.
That's all I ever knew until I came to A&M and then of course I quickly realized that
Yale leaders were completely different and probably the closest thing to being an athlete that you could be at A&M without being an athlete, but still being involved in all of that.
So I was still a little bit backward and all.
I'd been selected to be first sergeant of squadron two at the end of my sophomore year, and many of the upperclassmen encouraged me to run for Yale leader.
I had kind of gained a little bit of recognition on the campus, just mainly because
all the different pranks that I would pull.
And when I say pranks, back then they weren't destructive.
I would never, Aggies don't destroy, true Aggies don't destroy anything on this campus or hurt anyone permanently.
So it was fun pranks and I just kind of had a reputation for that which I had gotten around and they thought I could win.
Did somebody suggest it to you?
Yes, oh yes.
I would never have thought about it.
several of my upperclassmen in my outfit and even in the dorm from other outfits.
They knew that I loved A&M.
They knew I was strong on the traditions and serious about them.
Describe, if you can, how did that get organized?
Well, back then it was so different than the day to day.
It's pretty professional.
They have signs and everything back then.
I don't even remember having signs out.
But did you go to... We would go around dorm to dorm, introduce ourselves, just say, hey, I'm running for Yale leader and appreciate your vote.
That's basically what it was.
We didn't make speeches to groups and it was almost a one-on-one type deal and they either knew you and knew that you were a true Aggie and loved the traditions and knew them or not.
Back then, that was one of the biggest aspects I would say was the traditions.
And there were how many?
Six?
There were five Yale leaders.
There were...
two junior Yale leaders, three seniors, one of them having to be a civilian.
A lot of people don't realize that, but one of the Yale leaders during the period that we were there had to be from the civilian ranks.
I didn't know that.
So, we always had a civilian, anything about it now, it's... All right, and where did people vote then?
I think at the MSC, it seems to me like, and somebody might tell you better about that,
It wasn't all over campus, I don't believe.
How did you learn the results of the election?
It was before it came out in the bat.
Some of my upperclassmen actually learned and came to my room and told us, and so some of my buddies would haze us anytime you got some kind of campus-wide position like that, especially the yell eater, they would tie you up in a,
bedsheet and tie you to the tree and spray you down with water.
They might cover you with shaving cream and shave you all over.
Did they?
Yes, they did.
Yeah, they did.
They did all that to me.
To you?
And what time of night did that happen?
That was probably getting close to midnight.
Okay.
That's the time the results came in.
And where did... I was in the dorm.
No, but where did this shaving occur?
Oh, there at the dorm.
In the showers.
Oh, oh, oh.
It was indoors.
Yes, it was indoors.
Now, as far as tying you up in the sheet and hanging you from the tree, that was out in the quad.
One of the trees from the quad, they'd just tie you up and throw water on you.
All right, then was there any formal announcement the next day in the dining hall?
No, I didn't remember anything like that.
It wasn't a big deal, and it was just kind of a matter of fact.
It was a job.
How'd you let your parents know?
Well, I called them and told them, and they didn't know much about it.
They thought I was crazy for running and couldn't understand why their little athlete high school boy would be running for something like what they consider to be cheerleader, you know, not knowing anything about it.
And more than 200 interviews don't have anything about this, so describe how does a Yale leader get prepared, trained, conditioned?
Okay, once you're elected,
As you know, the yells have been pretty much basically the same for several decades.
And the formations, the hand signals have pretty much been the same.
The previous Yale leaders, right after you're elected, they will get with you and you start working.
And then during the summer, you will get together as often as possible, not too often,
because we just weren't able to in those days.
You weren't on campus during the summer.
We didn't go to summer school very much back in that time.
And so, just whatever time you could work in from the time you were elected to the end of the year and then
The week or so before the first ball game, when you came back the next year, you were just mostly over in the Grove.
It's where we'd practice a lot.
And who was the head yell eater then?
Mike Marlowe, class of 64.
He was the head yell eater.
My freshman year was Jim Davis, sophomore year, Bill Breshears and Mike Marlowe.
As you look back in those years, was there any Corps outfit or Air Force or Army that dominated?
No, not like today.
That's kind of true today in a lot of ways, but back then it really wasn't.
We had two areas, the new area, the Duncan area, but we had a lot of the Corps over in what they call the old area, the Sebesa area.
So I lived always in the new area, and the only way I would meet most of the people over in the old area was
in class with them or something like that.
So it was almost two different groups there.
But it wasn't that way at all.
It was just kind of almost like they knew who really knew the traditions and loved them and meant something to them, it seemed like to me.
All right.
Then after your sophomore year, what did you do that summer?
That summer I worked again at
Lone Star Ammunition Plant, right out of Texarkana.
Did basically the same thing.
Come back still, majoring in?
Personnel Management.
All right.
Yes.
And you're still in the same outfit that fall.
Still in that same outfit.
First sergeant, first time to have a position like that.
I've been president of my class in high school all four years, all that kind of stuff.
But this is the first time to really have some type of leadership position where you were dealing with 120
So you're a Yale Eater and a first sergeant.
Yes.
Where was your... And RV my junior year.
So it was the time and my grades probably suffered for it.
I wasn't the greatest student in the world, but hung in there to... How did you learn you might have a chance to be an RV?
You know, they just announced for you to apply.
You apply and just...
Do you have any idea who?
No.
Who told me?
Or who selected you?
I do not.